Plugwise: include info w.r.t. Zeroconf discovery (#13868)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/plugwise.markdown

title: Plugwise
description: Plugwise Smile platform integration.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Climate
  - Sensor
  - Switch
  - Water Heater
ha_iot_class: Local Polling

> ha_release: 0.98

Reviewer: We should keep this at `0.98` as this is 'included since'

Author: Ok, will change back.

## Entities

This integration will show all Plugwise entities present in your Plugwise configuration. In addition you will see a 'Smile' entity representing your central Plugwise gateway (i.e. the Smile, Smile P1 or Adam).

> For example, if you have an Adam setup with a Lisa named 'Living' and a Tom named 'Bathroom' these will show up as individual entities. When there are more (than one) Plugwise thermostats present, an "Auxiliary Device" will be added representing the active heating/cooling device present in your climate system. If you have Plugs (as in, pluggable switches connecting to an Adam) those will be discovered as `switch`es. Various other measures of your setup will be available as `sensor`s or `binary_sensor`s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you have an Adam setup with a Lisa named 'Living' and a Tom named 'Bathroom' these will show up as individual entities. When there are more (than one) Plugwise thermostats present, an "Auxiliary Device" will be added representing the active heating/cooling device present in your climate system. If you have Plugs (as in, pluggable switches connecting to an Adam) those will be discovered as switches. Various other measures of your setup will be available as sensors or binary sensors.
```

Centralized measurements such as 'power' for a P1, 'outdoor_temperature' on Anna or Smile will be assigned to your gateway entity. Auxiliary Heater(/Cooler) measurements such as 'boiler_temperature' will be assigned to the Auxiliary entity.

## Configuration

> The Plugwise Smile(s) present in your network will be automatically detected via Zeroconf discovery and will be shown on the Integrations-page. To set up an integration, click CONFIGURATION on the discovered Entity and you will be presented with a dialog requesting the Smile password. After you click submit, you will have the opportunity to select the area(s) where individual Smile appliances are located.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Plugwise Smile(s) present in your network will be automatically detected via Zeroconf discovery and will be shown on the Integrations-page. To set up an integration, click the "CONFIGURATION" button on the discovered integration and you will be presented with a dialog requesting your Smile password. After you click submit, you will have the opportunity to select the area(s) where individual Smile appliances are located.
```

> PLEASE NOTE 1: the Unique ID(s) of the Plugwise integration(s) has(have) changed due to the introduction of automatic discovery. If you have already configured the Plugwise integration(s) via the "Integrations --> Plus-button"-method, you can ignore the newly discovered Plugwise integration(s).

Reviewer 2: This is a breaking change that should be part of the release notes, not the documentation.

Reviewer: This can be removed, it isn't changing of unique ID. The way zeroconf detects and registers is different. There is nothing breaking here :)

Author: Ok, noted, will be removed.

Reviewer: It is true you can ignore it ... for clarification sake ... zeroconf provides the smile id (i.e. `smile01234`) but without the authentication password we can't fish it out of the XML. On top of that, not all devices have it in their XMLs.

Author: Removed.

> PLEASE NOTE 2: when you have an Anna and an Adam, make sure to only configure the Adam integration. You can press IGNORE on the Anna integration to remove this integration. 

Reviewer 2: Use a note box instead of "PLEASE NOTE"

Author: Sorry, how do I do that?

Reviewer 2: <https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page#html>

Author: I've implemented the note box, but I see no difference from the normal text?

Reviewer: GitHub won't render it, but once it goes through jekyll it will render properly.

Author: OK clear tnx.

> PLEASE NOTE 3: BE AWARE that ignoring one Plugwise integration also blocks any other Plugwise integration from future discovery. If you ever need to rediscover an existing Plugwise integration, make sure to first STOP IGNORING the Plugwise integration before you try rediscovery.

Reviewer 2: This is not an integration specific thing, but Home Assistant functionality. Not sure if this belong here.

Author: Yes, might be, but many people don't know this, including me, that's why I added this Note 3 specifically.
Are these specific things documented somewhere else? If not, I would argue that putting it here is not bad?

Reviewer 2: Yes, but lets merge it with the second note. "This is how you hide it, if you want it back, this is how to get it back"-ish.

Author: Ok, done.
